xclip

WHAT IS XCLIP?

xclip is a simple little utility that is designed to be run on the command line
on a *n?x system. It reads input from standard in (usually piped to it) or
files and puts it in the X selection of an X server ready for pasting into any
x app with your middle mouse button. I primarily use a GNOME setup, and xclip
allows better intergration with command line software. For example, it's  handy
if you need to email the output of a command to someone. Say someone wants you
to email a whois record to them, with xclip it's as simple as "whois domain.com
| xclip", then middle click in an email. Just saves you from selecting the
right text, which can be slightly tricky if it spans multiple pages, etc.

I am somewhat surprised that a utility like this hasn't been implemented before
- am I missing something? If not, I feel xclip is a pretty "core" utility that
most people would use. It's in the Unix spirit of a simple program to add to
the toolbox, to integrate with other tools. If no alternative to xclip exists,
I'd like to see to become a pretty standard X tool!

FEATURES

* Reads data piped to standard in or files given as arguments
* Connects to the X display in $DISPLAY, or specified with -display host:0 
* Can wait for more than one paste of the selection data

TODO

* Not dependant on GNU glibc's getopt_long_only for compatibility with non-GNU
  *n?x systems
* A proper configure script to find xlibs, not hardcoded into Makefile...
* Test, make work on as many platforms as possible
* Write man page
* Option to make xclip fork into the background while waiting for selection
  requestes, instead of tying up the terminal with commentary
* Submit to X distributions (X Consortium, XFree86, etc)

CAN I HELP?

Glad you asked! xclip is my first project in C! Not to mention my first time
using xlib, etc, etc. Hence, I am aware that it is probably pretty badly
written at the moment. I'd really appreciate help achieving the goals in the
TODO above. If you speak C or xlib, please check the code out, and submit any
comments/fixes to me, but please, explain what the changes are. If you just
submit a patch, I'm likely to not understand it, and I would like to get better
at this stuff. After all, I wrote this to learn C on *n?x, xlib, etc as much as
anything else. No, I didn't spend many hrs on this to save me 3 seconds of
selecting text...

I'm sure the tasks above would only take 2 or 3 hrs each for someone who knew
what they were doing - I'd be appreciative to anyone who is willing to put in
that time, and tell me how they did it, to save me stabbing around in the dark.

VERSION

0.02 - Second public release. A few steps closer to completion, see the
changelog.

LICENSE

GNU GPL, see the LICENSE file for details

CONTACT

Web:
http://www.mercuryit.com.au/~kims/xclip/

Email:
kim.saunders@fortytwo.com.au

Please email with about problems, experiences, patches, fixes, etc.
